Julia Pillai Powell was passionate about
creating theatrical looking characters
with a stroke of a brush felipao is one
of the students in the film fashion and
theatre program at the Academy of
aesthetics it's really friendly here I
find the atmosphere quite enjoyable
great teachers are always quite helpful
when students are great as well I'm
really just very present and quite
enjoyable pillai pal keeps a close eye
on the film industry for opportunities
whether it pays or not I've already been
starting to look and so far I've had a
few opportunities to go and do some
volunteer work which has been great the
theatre makeup course started three
years ago with two students in the
basement of fruit and so Linux house was
getting makeup artists coming to me said
I want to be a film and television
makeup artist and they had paid a lot of
money for bad training so out of
frustration I decided that you know what
we we could have a program here students
apply their skills in all facets of
theatre makeup from beauty to fantasy to
character they also learn how to make
custom latex pieces and silicone masks
as in every piece of business if you
specialize in just one thing you're not
necessarily going to get hired if you
know how to do everything then when one
area becomes slow you can step into
another area they're able to do anything
having to do with the makeup artistry
itself they can work in cosmetics with
photographers a film and television my
favorite I would have to say would
probably be the fantasy makeup where I
get to do like make aliens and such like
that Miley save it would be zombies but
aliens for sure for me fantasy pretty
why's that why's is fantastically fun Oh
Lennox says the first years as a makeup
artist can be tough and as in any line
of work networking is extremely
important they'll be doing a certain
amount of freebie works on little
independent film projects but eventually
that producer will be making a
in projects so i would like to in the
end hopefully be in the film to do that
kind of area and do videos and such and
film that's my ambition for it um--and
because of the training the students
receive at the academy many of them were
able to go on to work in the industry
such as working on photo shoots and on
commercials and who wouldn't be tempted
with all this makeup around hmm maybe
beauty would be nice nothing like trying
a new look for spring yeah exactly
graduates of the Academy are busy
working on a shoot for the Alberta
teachers union for these grads it's one
of the most entertaining jobs
transforming people into zombies oh my
god it's so much fun yeah yeah I get to
make her look like she's ripped up it's
awesome I find I says laughing at what i
end up doing to them most of the time so
that's a good thing and it's always a
different character to make the zombies
look as realistic as possible it takes
jars of fake blood hours of work and
concentration attention to detail is
very important so you want to you know
give it depth so it looks real and not
just like you slap some stuff on their
face um so using different materials so
that it looks realistic it's quite a new
experience because you know you how many
students do really get to have the
ability to come in and get your makeup
professionally done and do zombie
commercials it's just something new for
me and it's really really fun ensuring
continuity is important especially on a
multi-day shoot and also that the look
is authentic a lot of research goes into
it beforehand so just looking at what
other people in the industry have done
before me because I'm new and people
have been doing this for years so you
can really see ya some of the best that
are out there I scare myself sometimes
because the makeup is just so well done
and it's just so cool to see yourself
differently than you usually do because
most people don't look like this on a
daily basis so it's just little weird
looking in the mirror and having blood
dripping out of your mouth
tammy Krajcik shaw TV Capital Region